The Eskimos originated in Asia and settled in the
Arctic region some 4,000 years ago. A North-American
Indian tribe called them Eskimos, which actually
means "people who eat raw meat". However, the
settlers called themselves Inuit, which means
"people".
Vis kompetansemål
FAGSTOFF
Canada - The Tale of the
Inuit and Their Land
| Engelsk (SF)
The English-Speaking World
Canada
Canada - The Tale of the Inuit and Their Land
Meny
Søk
Logg inn


The Inuits belonged to nomadic tribes that moved over large arctic
areas, hunting caribou, seals, }sh and polar bears. During the
winter, they dug themselves into snow and earth, using driwood
covered with turf as roofs, in order to avoid freezing to death.
Oxentlig eie
Bilde: George R King
Canada - The Tale of the Inuit and Their Land
1x
0:00
-7:38
CC BY-SA
Lyd: Catharine Ruud


For clothing they used whatever nature had to
o€er - polar bear skin or caribou fur. The Inuit
still hunt and }sh, and some of them travel 5,000
kms a year in order to obtain what they need.
Sometimes they build igloos as temporary
quarters, and in order to catch seals they make a
hole in the ice and wait for a seal to come up for air. They then
simply hit it on the head to immediately kill it.
Today, most Inuit live in villages or towns. They are proud of their
hunting traditions, their culture, folk songs and language. Their
language is called Inuktitut, and is similar to the language in
Greenland and among Inuit in Alaska. It is a very special language,
since they express themselves in few words. One word may
actually replace a whole English sentence.
In 1999, the Inuit achieved two dearly sought-aer wishes - the
right to self-determination and rights over their beloved land. 20 %
of the total area of Canada (2 million km ) was given to a
population of 24 730, an entire 20 480 of whom were Inuit. This
gives the Inuit the right both to control exploitation of natural
resources and to keep a large percentage of the resulting income.
Iqaluit was chosen as the capital city of the Nunavut Territory and
is Canada's northernmost capital and fastest-growing community.
Nunavut means "Our Land". The like of this act has never before
been passed for any native population. It represents the 5th-largest
country subdivision in the world. Canada has really paved the way!
Below, you }nd a link to the Inuit version of Amazing Grace. Listen
to it, and enjoy the beautiful sounds of this language.
2
Amazing Grace - Inuit Version


